
wing is my solution to physics cup problem 3. We will first
start by proving some auxilary theorems.

# auxilary theorem 1

Let a projectile be fired from the ground at an angle \(\theta\) we know
that the equation of its trajectory can be written as follows:-
\[y=xtan\theta-\frac{gx^2sec\theta}{2v_o^2}\] Where the point of
projection is taken as origin.This equation encodes all the info about
the trajectory for eg the directrix of the projectile. To find the
directrix of this projectile we just have to rearrange this equation in
the form \((x-h)^2=4a(y-k)\) and use the properties of a parabola.

The directrix equation comes out to be: \[y=\frac{V_o^2}{2g}\]

# auxilary theorem 2

We can also prove that the equation of directrix is common for all
parabolas formed by the bouncing ball on the incline.

It is not hard to prove that on the nth bounce the ball covers a
distance of \(ngsin\alpha*T^2\) where T is the time taken for each
bounce.To find T we will work in the incline frame and the value of T
comes out to be \[T=\frac{2*\sqrt{2gdcos\alpha}}{gcos\alpha}\]

Now the vertical height H of the of the ball just after the nth bounce
can be written as
\[H=\frac{d}{cos\alpha}+\Sigma{8ndsin\alpha tan\alpha}\]

![figure
1<span label="figure 1"></span>](http://iamayushanand.github.io/assets/images/probthree.jpeg)

which simplifies down to
\[H=\frac{d}{cos \alpha}+4dtan\alpha sin\alpha(n^2+n)\]

Now we will use auxillary theorem 1. After the nth bounce the square of
net velocity of the ball is
\[v^2=(\sqrt{2gdsin\alpha tan\alpha}+ngsin\alpha T)^2+2gdcos\alpha\] on
substituting the value of T and expanding the square we get
\[v^2=\frac{2gd(1+4n^2sin^2 \alpha+4nsin^2 \alpha)}{cos \alpha}\] By
auxilary theorem 1 the directrix of this projectile in at
\[\frac{v^2}{2g}\] which we can see is equal to H hence proved.

# auxilary theorem 3

We can also prove that there is a line passing through the initial point
of dropping which touches all the parabolas. To prove this we will go
into the incline frame and by the resolution of velocity vector we can
see that the velocity component perpendicular to incline at the start of
each bounce is \(\sqrt{2gdcos \alpha}\) now the maximum height achieved
by this in the inclined frame is \(\frac{2gdcos\alpha}{2gcos\alpha}\)
which is equal to the perpendicular distance of d from the incline hence
proved.

# locus of focii

We will solve this question by using geometry in the incline frame of
reference. We know that the focus of each parabola must line on the line
passing through its vertex and the vertex is equidistant from the
directrix and the focus.This allows for the following geometric
construction

